hey
yeah
let's go
good morning good afternoon good evening
we're coming from hope you all are doing
well welcome back everybody whoo
that music was a vibe today the the song
before we came live
i don't know they switched it up harris
teller switching it up on us but i liked
it it was good
damn it going
what's going on everybody welcome
welcome
glad you are here
excited to build some dope stuff tonight
tonight we're getting data from nasa and
bending it to our will
we are learning about local storage and
some of the secrets behind wordle and
then we are diving in and building a
whole card game together
utilizing apis the whole way through so
lots of fun lots of stuff to get into
lots of work with apis we're going to
see them in in
in in
in real
real time we're going to build stuff
with them we're going to mold stuff with
them we're going to see a lot of really
cool stuff so excited you're here hope
you're ready to get your fingers on the
keyboard to build a little bit the c
apis like start to be useful and so lots
of fun stuff to get into
i'm excited it feels like a good day
i love card games me too me too i play a
lot of card games
welcome everybody all right you know how
we do
i i always like to start off with some
questions
and so the questions today
for the question of the day is uh
where's your favorite tv show growing up
melody dev a coming through
just in time for class with 129 folks
hey welcome everybody
glad you're here melody what were you
working on
and why are you not on the stream team
yet who are you working on
were y'all up to spongebob
i i forgot i asked the question before
you rate it so i'm like what are you all
up to and everybody's saying spongebob
spongebob i was like oh y'all are
working on spongebob that's great
glad you're here thanks for swinging by
we got a lot of good ones ed and eddie
doctor who sailor moon
dragon ball flintstones rugrats rock
goes modern life
you change the turtles
doctor who
wow
these are some good ones pokemon of
course
good times digimon i don't know about
that
goosebumps love goosebumps goosebumps up
there high for me
i think there's like a wave where you're
like into like goosebumps are you afraid
of the dark ghost writer if you have
people if you're a pbs kid like myself
oh there's a lot of good ones all right
folks i see y'all
what was my favorite
i really like pbs shows because that's
all i was allowed to watch
ghost raiders up there for sure
um arthur when i was younger was pretty
pretty dope actually arthur was dope
like when i was in high school
because i would get home
uh late and it was what was it was the
last two shows it was arthur and then
dragon tales before the news started so
i i watched me a little bit too much
arthur later in my later in my years
doug was always up there too
the old school like saturday cartoon
like the disney block on on if you're in
philly channel six
that was like recess and all those cyber
chase oh cyberchase was a was a
and wishbone i think wishbone's up there
i think wishbone's probably my favorite
yeah wishbone wristband was up there for
sure
and zoom oh
i wanted nothing more to be a a person
on zoom
all right folks i like this one cat dog
was out there too
cat dog is one oh magic school bus i
think that might be it i think it's
magic school bus yep magic school bus
hold on one second right back
i went to a flea market recently
and they had all the old school magic
school bus games
human body
animals
solar system yeah
watch out what a flex right what am i
talking about
anyway
uh they had them for a dollar so i got
them all
i was like these that's my childhood
right there that's what i always wanted
to play whenever i was in school because
my school had them all
do you have a cd drive i actually do
have a cd drive don't ask me why
some of us sail the high seas more than
others that's all i got to say gargoyles
that was a good one too all right thank
you for letting me know what your
favorite tv shows were
any coding related questions before we
get started this evening folks this is a
fun one i like seeing everybody's
answers thank you for uh showing me what
you're into
back wing duck oh that's such a good one
so i got a job but i couldn't believe it
until today when i got the laptop it's
funny some people say that my question
what is your advice on working as a
software developer
what you do in the first three months
you can coast on for the next year
so get in there and go hard in those
first three months
one of the first things you need to do
is talk to your manager and ask what
does success look like three months well
one month three months six months nine
months in a year from now
right have that conversation like if i
do these things you will consider my
time here successful when you're done
having that conversation send them an
email thanking them for their time and
listing all the things that you just
agreed to
right that way when they try to pay a
fast one on you in three months and
they're like oh well you didn't do this
you're like well when we talked you said
this was the goal and i hit that goal
right so make sure you understand what
success looks like in your role
spend time building relationships and
friends with folks on your team and not
just your team but kind of all the the
tangential teams maybe talk to the
designers maybe talk to uh more other
product members as well so get to know
folks get to know folks even outside
your team build those relationships know
those relationships actually help you as
you go deeper in working at that company
and know what success looks like and go
hard for those first three months
get there early stay late or log on
early log off late
just for those first three months to set
that impression because then you can
kind of
i don't know skirt skirt a little bit
and still
and still hold on to that rep so yeah go
hard in the first three months make sure
you build good relationships make sure
you know what success looks like and
don't be afraid to ask questions
how do we code the api to loop through
the array that's part of the push work
so that that's not due yet
all you do is you get that array back if
you're talking about like the cocktail
database you get the array back and then
you can set up a
a loop to move through it now if you
just do a for loop the problem with that
is that you are going to
um
just kind of get to the end and just
show that in the dom so there's
something else you can use like a set
interval or some other things that will
only move at a certain period of time so
if you're trying to do like a carousel
look up set interval maybe that's a good
place to start
is there a channel on discord for the
catch-up crew yeah of course
once you agree to the rules and join 100
devs you have to click the emojis to
join you'll see a catch-up crew channel
you use the counter sure perfectly fine
and use the counter as well
should we build our own carousel or use
a plug-in build your own because it's
really not that
it's really nothing that you need from a
plug-in if you just set it up based off
because you already have all the data
and everything it's just showing it at a
certain interval
cool
jackie happy birthday let's see this
still works
happy birthday
all right folks thank you for getting
your questions in i always like to give
the folks a few seconds to get in here
uh that are kind of running from work
so let's jump into it we got a lot of
fun stuff so we're gonna talk a little
bit about 100 devs then we're going to
quickly review very very very very very
quickly
some basic review arrays objects then
we're gonna jump right into working with
basic apis uh
utilizing nasa's api to get some data
back then we're gonna learn more about
other apis not just web apis but maybe
even some other apis like local storage
we're going to see how wordle actually
stores their data we're going to see it
live in the browser and then we're going
to wrap up by building a card game
together
using an api so really fun to get into
it let's jump in
all right if you haven't checked in yet
go ahead and do exclamation point check
in that gives you the link to today's
tweet remember just typing in check-in
doesn't actually do anything it just
gives you the link so if you already saw
the link on discord or on twitter uh you
can just always like and retweet that
remember check-ins help grow the
community but it's also when we get to
the end and you you need the support or
things that we're gonna provide at the
end we're making sure that folks that
get that support were the folks that
were checking in and we're here for
class
all right
i'm gonna keep saying it and actually i
actually like that this is the same
character or same person because the
checking in shows you that you are not
alone that there are thousands of people
here that are learning right alongside
of you that are that are going through
the same experience that you are going
through
and i think that's an amazing
amazing thing i think
trying to learn how to code on your own
is a super hard endeavor but when you
when you're doing it by yourself it's
even harder so if you've been part of
this community thank you if you've been
part of it but just haven't participated
get on discord ask questions get the
help that you deserve because you're not
alone going through this and as we go
through this process especially when we
get to apis and we're starting to build
more and more stuff
you got to realize that you're probably
feeling some things
and the things that you're feeling maybe
others are feeling them too so i always
like to point out our channels like the
struggle bus channel i like to point out
even the celebrations channel too that
you can see that there are highs and
lows to this process we're firmly in the
trough of sorrow and uh you're not alone
going through it so definitely use
discord not only for just like help but
also to commiserate or to celebrate as
you kind of go through the the highs and
lows of the trough of sorrow
cool
also remember health first please
all right health first please if you
need to take some time for mental health
take it if you need to miss a class
because you have to take care of
yourself do it
we always will have the ketchup crew you
can always catch the vod you can always
come ask your questions on discord or
this is a marathon not a sprint
especially as we start getting deeper
into it start getting deeper into it
you're going to start putting more and
more stress on your body more stress on
your hands more stress on your eyes more
stress on your shoulders and so do the
things that you need to do to take care
of yourself please
we still got a long way to go folks the
long way to go
all right no networking until may you're
supposed to be taking this this month to
build
right we're taking some time off the
networking not to chill a little bit but
to be actually be able to put time into
building these api projects whenever we
do something in class we start something
in class the expectation is that you
build on it that you make your own that
you tweak it that you modify it that you
play with it that you get in the muck as
you're in the trough and you play
right and so the idea is that you really
want to take this time
to play with your code to break it to
come out of it you're going to learn so
much more from playing and breaking and
building than you will from just sitting
here and listening to me talk
all right we got it you got to get your
fingers on the keyboard you got to put
in that time to play with the code and
to break it and bend it to your will and
do the things that you want it to do
you know
do you think there will be a break
during this cohort yeah we'll probably
plan a break in a little bit i think
once we get to back end we'll probably
have like a break between like really
starting back end and getting into it
but we'll play it by ear see how people
are feeling um speaking of break this
weekend we won't have any office hours
because of the easter holiday
and some other holidays that are
happening across that period too
we got passover and all that fun stuff
so
we will have class on thursday
but then no office hours on
sunday
cool
client deadline may
3rd um i think that is a holiday as well
um if your holiday falls on may 3rd then
your deadline would be the 5th
uh yeah
yeah it is on monday right yeah uh but
then like the second run of it i think
is may 3rd right
and so um if that holiday falls on may
3rd i think it does
then uh it will your deadline would be
the fifth but client deadline third uh
unless you actually let's make it for
the fifth for everyone
we'll just make it the fifth for
everyone
cool
may 6 equals doctor strange movie leon
can't make it on the sixth
uh quiet alternatives
you can
uh do grassroots volunteering
all right grassroots volunteering or you
can contribute to free
software right so free software or
grassroots volunteering um
it's up to you
uh which one you choose if you're not
able to get a paid client remember paid
client best thing you can do these two
are a close second but really shoot for
that paid client unless you can't then
you have these two options available to
you
if you haven't yet
started code wars you're behind
so make sure you're starting to do your
code wars daily the reason why we're
taking a break from some of these other
things is that you can be doing a code
wars every single day
uh if you want to join our clan the clan
is this full string here
uh it's not just the octothorpe 100 devs
it's the full thing that's highlighted
right now with the leonwell.com twitch
that way more folks can find us when you
join the clan you get to see some of our
some of your fellow 100 devs uh and and
kind of have a little bit more uh
community on that code wars platform
we're gonna start doing some fun stuff
for folks
uh that are participating in the clan so
we'll be doing like discord colors and
vip here on twitch and some other cool
stuff and so yeah make sure that you are
using the correct clan that way you can
get some participate some of those perks
and raffles and fun stuff that we'll be
doing later on we're gonna be looking
not only for the folks that are at the
top but also the folks that are
improving the most
from month to month
cool
alrighty programming we're going to jump
right into it folks we got a lot to
cover today i don't think this will be
an end early day we've got a lot of
stuff to build and so we're going to
jump right into it
i'm at 6q and still so far from the top
100. well you got to remember there
there are folks that have been
participating in that clan
from 2020 right or it's early 2021 right
and so we have folks have been going
hard for over a year that aren't just
part of this cohort but have been part
of other the previous cohort or that are
kind of mentors that have used the clan
as well
hey trader joe great to hear that
alrighty let's get into it aiming for
top ten i think that's a worthy goal i
wish you luck
go for it
alrighty programming
what the heck is a program
chat what is a program please
what is a program
coming for sean i don't know good luck
with that
it's a set of instructions
nice set of instructions that we
write to tell a computer what to do
and therefore the act of programming is
writing those instructions nice
the language we use
to write and share those instructions is
javascript
that is a human readable language
that is then broken down into something
that the computer can actually
understand
all right so we're gonna we're gonna
jump right into the thick of it we're
gonna skip our variables our
conditionals all that fun stuff and get
right to loops chat what the heck is a
loop what are loops
a way to repeat some instructions
exactly
loops enable us to repeat an action or
an instruction a certain number of times
we've seen so many loops now we've seen
four wild we saw maybe duly once we saw
four each we've seen some of the more
advanced one with the rays like map and
all that fun stuff so this enables us to
do some action some number of times the
most common loop that we started off was
a for loop where we have our increment
we have our end condition and we how
much we have how much we increment per
each
turn or each run of the loop and then we
can do whatever we want inside those
curly braces so this would console log
one two three four but we would never
see five because we would never be able
to meet this condition because five is
not less than five it is equal to five
cool
arrays chat what are arrays
are loops exclusive to arrays no we have
while and for loops that have nothing to
do with arrays too those are the ones we
learned first right and then we saw that
oh arrays come with some other methods
that are also like loops or r loops
yeah arrays are toasters don't say you
haven't learned anything folks
you know that now you now know to raise
our toasters can we just stop and think
about this for a second if you know what
a variable is what a function is what an
array is what an object is
like come on now seriously like think
just a couple weeks ago
just like a couple weeks ago not you
were just going through life
not knowing about variables not knowing
about conditionals not knowing about
smurfs
not knowing about
arrays objects apis like come on i think
folks kind of get they start getting in
the weeds a little bit with apis and
they forget
all the wonderful stuff that you've
learned so far it's pretty wild
kudos to you
all right but yeah they're
toasters what a sad life it was exactly
life had no meaning
yep exactly all right
arrays or a data structure enables us to
store
right an ordered collection i say
ordered collection because each slot in
our toaster has an index and those index
start counting at zero
we can create an array using literal
notation
we also now know how to create an array
using a what
we know how to create an array using
literal notation like we see here just
using the square brackets but what's
another way that we can create an array
yeah we can use an array constructor
and that's going to enable us to create
an array as well
cool
when we declare our arrays we can assign
them
using little notation values already
inside of that array
we can access elements in the array
using index remember those indexes start
at zero
so we can use the indexes to grab
elements out of the array and we're
starting to see why this can be useful
when we start dealing with our apis
because we're getting those json objects
back and as we peel open the json
objects we're seeing inside those json
objects arrays and so you're still going
to need to understand how to use those
square brackets to get individual
elements right individual elements out
of the array
beautiful
not only can we get stuff out of the
array we can put stuff into the array
using the index
and we have a bunch of properties and
methods that come with arrays one of
them is the length property which will
tell you how many elements are inside of
your array
if you're new around these parts we're
going really fast because this is
something we spend a lot of time already
covering uh so if you if you're new here
and you want to join our free 30-week
software engineering bootcamp definitely
go ahead and click exclamation we'll
type in exclamation point 100 devs it'll
give you everything you need to know
about joining and then join our discord
exclamation point discord agree to the
rules click the emojis in the journal
under devs and you'll get access to a
bunch of other stuff including the
catch-up crew where you can catch up a
lot of this
review
we like to get our spaced repetition in
beautiful
we saw with arrays we had some methods
that enable us to iterate through the
array so our 4h runs once for each
element on the array we like to call it
a goblin that goes and grabs the element
and the index for each time that it runs
and so wherever i see x it would be the
element wherever i saw i would be the
index and i would be able to see this
for each run four times because there
are four elements in this array
cool
all right chat what are objects
what's the difference before each a map
map returns a new array
objects are everything
exactly they are everything aren't they
yeah they are collections of
variables and
functions a collection of variables and
functions exactly we call those
variables properties and we call those
functions
methods so they are a collection of
variables and functions but when you're
dealing with an object we call those
variables properties and we call those
functions methods nice
i like to think of a physical object
when i'm thinking of objects so i like
to think of a stopwatch
using dot notation i can add properties
and methods we can tell this is a
property uh because i set it equal to a
value that's not a function you can tell
that tell time is a method because we
set the vehicle to something that is a
function cool
what if we want to make a lot of objects
we could use dot notation and type out
our objects we want to make a lot of
objects what would we need
yeah we would need a constructor
and if we didn't have a constructor what
else was something else that we can use
what if we wanted to put a little sugar
on our constructors what could we use
a class exactly remember we got classes
with the newer versions of javascript
and we can use them
cool
so we talked about factories are these
constructors
so the constructors are simply functions
that help us spit out objects so we can
see all of the properties that we put on
this object that comes out of the make
car constructor
and we also see the methods of hunk
and lock
that would enable us to
have methods that come with the objects
that come out of this make car
constructor by just a quick glance how
can i tell that this function is a
constructor
you're having uber driving chicago and
picked up somebody that was in the last
cohort that's wild
that's pretty cool
yeah we can tell it has a capital letter
remember that capital letter doesn't do
anything
that capital letter just lets us know
that it is a constructor
cool
here you can see that we are creating a
new object what's the special keyword
that actually enables us to create the
object though if we if make car is just
a function what's the what's the thing
that's enabling us to create the object
yeah
we got this new keyword exactly we got
this new keyword and so when we have the
new keyword combined with a constructor
that enables us to spit out an object
that object would have a make a model a
color a doors property and a honk and
lock method honk and lock there we go
cool
we also know that when elements are
looking for when we're looking for
properties on an object
where does it check first
when and when we're looking for
properties yeah
it checks itself first it looks at
itself first and says hey
do i have this property and then if it
doesn't have it it goes up to its what
check yourself
goes up to what
yeah it's constructor prototype and if
the constructor prototype doesn't have
it it keeps going up the prototype chain
until it hits grandma or the global
object prototype and then from that
global object prototype we can grab
stuff and bring it all the way back down
the chain
i really like this example of we created
a tesla roadster and we saw on the last
constructor there was no bluetooth
property so if i had created
thousands or millions of tesla's right
none of them would have had bluetooth
well
i can put bluetooth on the constructor
prototype and now every single car that
was made from that constructor whether
it was made in the past or the future
now has access to bluetooth because the
teslas will always check themselves
when they don't have it they'll go up to
the prototype and since the prototype
has it they have that source of
properties you can think of it as like a
fallback source of properties and
methods
boom
alrighty
we're able to do something like this
where we say doors dot to string
but we can see that tesla does not have
a two string
method
where the heck
does
where the heck does
where the heck does two string come from
yes coming from the global object
prototype the tesla checks itself does
not have two string goes to the
constructor prototype
doesn't have two string it goes up the
prototype chain until it gets to the
global object prototype since the global
object prototype has that two string
method well then guess what the tesla
has the two string
method
beautiful
all right somebody asked a really good
question
why
why don't we just put
why not just come back here and say
uh this
dot bluetooth
equals true
why not just go back and do that
if i did that if i updated the
constructor
right if i updated the constructor
would all of the past objects have
bluetooth
no
none of the past objects that have
bluetooth this would only fix new
objects that are coming out of the
constructor
right so i knew it ahead of time maybe
but we also talked about this thing that
i think is a little advanced we're not
there yet we don't have to be there yet
but there's this idea that every single
car
that came out of this constructor would
now have its own
version of bluetooth
and so if we created millions and
millions of cars these are millions and
millions of cars that have their own
version of bluetooth
whereas if we had just put bluetooth on
the constructor there's only one and
every object could inherit from it so
maybe we start getting into like memory
issues where if we have millions that
have their own copy versus just sharing
a copy right then we might start getting
into some some optimization things that
we'll get to later in our in our journey
together
so yeah once we know about
object-oriented programming we better
understand inheritance and things like
that we might be able to save some some
some
some memory we might be able to save
some some space in in that way
cool
all right
we also saw that there was some
syntactical
sugar that we could put on our
constructors to bring them in line with
a lot of other languages and so with the
newer versions of javascript we got the
class syntax it is still constructors
under the hood but they look a lot
prettier
so here we have our
class of make car
we have our constructor inside of it and
then we have our methods as their kind
of own functioning looking elements
there
and so this is the new syntax for how we
do
our constructors
but with their classes and when we start
adopting this class-based syntax it's
going to make some of our object
oriented stuff a little bit easier to
grasp and understand and i think it just
looks a little bit better
but know that underneath the hood
still
still prototypes underneath the hood
still prototypal inheritance underneath
the hood that's also another thing it's
prototypal not prototypical inheritance
prototypal inheritance cool
alrighty let's get our fingers on the
keyboard please
all right let's get our fingers on the
keyboard please uh in today's starter
code if you need the starter code go to
our discord agree to the rules look at
the follow along materials channel the
zip file is there for you
in that zip file we have the objects
netflix tv shows
file folder object netflix tv shows and
in the js file it says create a netflix
tv show
class
with a constructor that makes netflix tv
shows with four properties and three
methods so i want a class not a regular
constructor function i want you to use
the class-based syntax
to make a
new netflix tv show class so we can spit
out netflix shows netflix is onto tara
spitting out so many new shows recently
uh we we were all blessed with love is
blind and then we are blessed with the
elimination and so we want to be able to
help netflix spit out more wonderful
crap television so that i can enjoy
myself
all right
let's go ahead i'm gonna put let's see
i think three minutes on the clock four
minutes on the clock is okay for this
one
three minutes we'll do three minutes
you can take a peek at the other slides
right you can take a peek at the the
slides
oh the finale is tomorrow for the
ultimatum
if you need to if you need to see that
class syntax here you go
but you are making me a netflix class
please
can we use class yes i i want you to use
class for this one
you got this
space cowboy give yourself a refresh
this is the netflix tv show folder
stream beats by harris heller pitch
black
welcome chelsea
so
i think so
yeah
a good call let's make sure we're still
on the stream beats
yeah i think i think they mix up the
order every once in a while of stuff
they always leave like the first two
songs the same but i think just to get
some plays on their other songs
i wonder if like um
spotify encourages plays on new music
oh sorry different i actually changed it
i don't know what it was i'm sorry
yeah there's a whole new album called
cherry soda that it was from
got some dunzos that's good to see
superman no home hey thank you for the
five gifted subs appreciate you thank
you for being here
appreciate you
all right folks let's look at this
together
all right so
let's help out netflix here they need
our help
uh create a netflix tv show class that
makes netflix tv shows we're gonna make
a class called
make
netflix
tv
shows and then you really have to fight
the urge to do what
you really have to fight the urge to do
what right here i always mess up
sometimes when i'm doing this
yeah you got to fight the area to do the
parentheses a lot of folks add the
parentheses and they get into trouble
because this is a class not a
constructor so we go straight to our
curly braces
all right now we have our constructor
and then our constructor can have those
parentheses
and in that constructor we have to go
ahead and set up our parameters so
what are some properties that we're
going to have
uh
why is your chat so active because we
had amazing people
genre
title
rating
episodes
i like that all right so let's do
uh let's do
title
genre
and or some of the ones you all said
uh
i think rating is a good one
and then
number of episodes
so number of episodes nice cool
let's go and set up our properties this
dot title equals title
this dot genre
equals genre
this dot rating
equals rating
and this dot
num of episodes equals num
of
episodes beautiful
now
what are these doing this dot title this
dot genre this thought rating this dot
number episodes what are those actually
doing
oh i like binge ability that's a good
one
yeah those are the those are actually
put in the work those are ones that are
binding the properties to the object
that comes out of this class and so the
objects that come out of this class will
have a title a genre a rating a number
of episodes because of the lovely disc
keyword here it's referring to itself
exactly now this title over here this
genre over here this rating over here
this number of episodes over here those
are just what
those are just what
those are just parameters exactly
why no commas you don't need them with
the class syntax you don't need them
cool
all right so those are our
our actual constructor here now it asks
us to do three methods
so what are some methods that our make
netflix tv shows class should have
play
stop
and
rewind
skip intro
okay
i like that
add to save the playlist i like that so
save the list we'll do that so let's go
ahead and do
uh a play
and so our play
doesn't need the function keyword you
just say play and then we'll just kind
of console
log playing
and then we'll have a stop
and we'll just say a console log is
stopping
beautiful and then we'll do a last one
which was save to list
you like the list of shows you want to
watch and so
you can just console log
and say all right
saved
to
list
all right somebody give me their
favorite netflix show
your favorite netflix show please
has to be netflix
no hbo mac stuff
ozark
blacklist bridgerton
the office oh is that still in there
lupin lupin is such a good show
such a good show
um
you know bridgerton is the number one
watch show on i think it's number one
it's the number one and number two
watched of all time on netflix that blew
my mind i had no idea it was like that
popular
cool we can do bridgerton then it seems
like so many people are into it let's do
that so let's go ahead and let
bridger
equal
new
and then it's a make netflix tv show
and we gotta pass in our
parameters so the title is
bridgerton
richardson is basically 1800 british
gossip girl it is
all right so we got bridgerton as the
title
genre is it romance
is it technically romance
romance right
period romance okay period romance or is
it drama is it romance or is it drama
i don't know
a drama
we're going to say
period
romantic
drama
because we can do whatever the we
want
all right so
we're over here like netflix is going to
use this we got to get it right
we don't get this right oh man
people are going to watch their shows
all right
we got our
[Music]
all right let's go
um
rating
has to be it's always 99 percent they're
they're never they're never
they're they're never they're never
comfortable enough to say a hundred
percent it's always 99. this guy leave
that little that little room
right
and then
maybe i'm just weird and nothing can
ever give me a hundred percent and the
number of episodes how many episodes
does bridgerton have
we do use bridgerton gifts a lot because
that's the newsletter gif is from
bridgerton
16 8 and 8.
beautiful
all right so let's go ahead and save
this and let's open it in the browser
let's open up our inspector
our console it didn't load the image
that's okay
bridgeton and when we asked for
bridgeton back we can see
right well you can see
we can see
that it has a
title a genre
a number of episodes and a rating
beautiful well done everybody
cool
all right so we built out our lovely
object or sorry our lovely class that
spits out lovely netflix tv show objects
and let's go ahead and
start moving into apis let's let's let's
actually take objects and do cool stuff
with them
did we just make a bridgerton api not
yet we could we didn't yet maybe maybe
that'd be one of our first api projects
yes what are apis chat what are apis
i see some people do it saying it
simple interface
for some complex action
what is your favorite interface that
enables you to do something complex
let's see what you got
what's your favorite interface to do
something complex
cell phone you press a button you call
someone anywhere in the world that's a
pretty dope interface
mute button
shower
you turn a handle and you get fresh
clean water that spills all over your
body i like that
car wheel you turn it to the left in a
massive car there's like there's an
engine that's turning and gears are
moving and and then it goes to the left
that's wild
toilet handle exactly you press it and
magically your waist leaves your your
house and it goes somewhere else where
you don't have to think about it
[Laughter]
a vending machine you press a button and
you get a lovely candy bar or a diet
coke coming through
yeah so these are all interfaces
that enable some complex action to
happen
that's all an api is is a simple
interface that enables some complex
action to happen and the cool thing is
the apis we're using are using some bit
of code as the interface so it's a url
or it's something that we have access to
that's simple as an interface but then
there's a lot of stuff that's going on
in the background so we're going to use
web urls tonight where we are using them
as our interface to get data back from
servers we're going to get data back
from nasa we're going to get some card
data back from another api we're going
to get some api some code back from a
pokemon api so we're going to get all
this data back from apis and our
interface is a url
we're also going to see another api that
is local storage where we get a special
interface that's just a method and then
it does something really complex for us
so there are not only like remote kind
of
browser-based so they're not only
urls or or web apis but there are apis
all across the the plane that we're
gonna be using as we're programming
local apis remote api's all this fun
stuff that we're gonna get to uh so apis
are a ball of fun we're going to get
into them
all right so simple interface for some
complex
action
the first interface i like to think
about
is a menu at a restaurant the menu is a
simple interface i point to my noodle
soup and then i say noodle soup please
and then in the kitchen all this magic
happens the beautiful broth is poured
the the the the scallions are chopped
the tofu has been pulled out of the
marinade uh the noodles are blanched and
it all comes together in this beautiful
bowl and then it comes out and is put on
my table
so i said send nudes and they went into
the kitchen made my noodles and boom
came through
absolutely an api okay
please don't i didn't think about that i
shouldn't have said that don't send me
anything i don't want to see you
um i meant noodles i meant noodles
send me photos of your noodles please
send me
photos
of your pho soup that's what i want
there you go if you ever if you ever if
you're ever eating a nice bowl of pho i
want you to think of me and send me a
photo of your bowl of soup please that's
the only photos that i want
i did get got
[Laughter]
do i need to ban myself i don't know
maybe
i think i need to time myself out you
know what we're gonna do that i'm gonna
time myself out uh we'll be back in five
minutes
let's take our break leon needs a
timeout
let's put five minutes on the clock
this is when it was getting good when we
come back we're gonna use apis to get
some data from nasa
we are going to use apis to understand
how wordle works we're going to use apis
to build a card game so five minutes on
the clock if you're new here we like to
think of this as a marathon on a sprint
we like to be healthy please get up move
around hydrate if you are able and i'll
see you all in five minutes gonna run
some ads you actually have to take a
break
see you soon everybody
somebody added two minutes to the timer
cormas
cormosaurus egg let's add two minutes
this is a little bit longer of a break
i'm just gonna start
it there you go
beautiful seven minutes on the timer
enjoy your longer break folks
i'm gonna run some ads
all right see you in 6 minutes 40
seconds folks
so
yep we're on break for another minute 30
seconds
cleaver that's why we use templates
are we doing raffles we're doing the
pokemon ones at the end of this stream
pokemon card ones because i gotta get
the since i'm mailing out all the merch
and stuff like that soon i wanna just do
all the cards at the same time
what would your pokemon team be if you
were to be a gym leader
um
probably grass
like a grass team
either that or psychic
somebody feeling better they are feeling
better um we just they they're like on a
very special diet right now so
uh we'll we'll see how that helps them
but yeah they've some of the systems
they even have have gone away pretty
quickly on the diet
sweater status uh so when we do the next
drop
we'll look at we'll do other sweaters i
had
i had a a pretty interesting merch
company reach out
that has like way higher quality merch
and so i'm talking with them right now
getting some quality samples but i think
they'll be able to do some of the things
i haven't been able to do
with our current provider and so i'm
really excited to do like a better like
well not better but a bigger merch drop
with some of the pieces that i really
want to do that i just haven't been able
to do so
open maybe like end of the month i want
to do merch like a monthly thing
yeah like monthly would be a good idea
all right folks come on back come on
back
[Music]
leon i made i made ramen where did where
do i where do i send it uh put it in
general and just at me at me in general
come all back folks come on back
hey yes send me a send me a message
happy to chat
alrighty
i actually ordered four stickers only
one at one and they all got cancelled
yeah i think i think the stream labs
just can't handle like a big flood of
merch i think it's like good if you're
not like trying to do drops like we just
want people like that are just grabbing
a t-shirt here or there
um but i think they ca they're not
really good at handling like that flood
of
people
cool
alrighty so
uh the apis we've been using so far
right
it so the the provider use can't do
pre-orders yeah they can't do pre-orders
so um that's why i'm looking at other
providers to make it a little bit easier
yeah cool all right so we we're talking
about apis being a simple interface for
some complex action we talked about a
menu uh the first kind of apis we've
been using are just web apis this idea
where our app that we're building can
make a request
a server hears that request there's some
code that's running on it that hears
that request and it responds with some
information and so there can be a lot of
stuff that a server could respond with
it could respond with html it could
respond with xml there's there's like
other formats of data that it could send
and it could also send json which
when we parse it it's just like a
regular old object emily guard a thank
you for the tier three that's wild thank
you for being here all right so what
we've been using so far is we've been
making requests to a server that server
hears the requests and then it responds
with that lovely lovely json object that
we can use
on our end and so the very first thing
we did was make this kind of dog ceo api
jason derulo hey thank you for the five
kids at subs
appreciate you thanks for being here
all right so we'd use this first fetch
where we went and got right
exactly
just like beetlejuice
say json three times and jason rulo
appears
we use this dog ceo api to go ahead and
get a random image of dogs and then we
were able to like console.log the images
that we got back we would have put them
into the dom and so we're going to use
this kind of as our template moving
forward this idea that we can make a
fetch we can get some data and then we
gotta spend some time looking at the
data we get back and kind of play with
it and be able to build what we want it
to build
so
uh
we saw with the cocktail database that
we could also utilize
query parameters
and these query parameters enable us to
ask for specific stuff back from the
server it's still a url
but we often can put
these property kind of value-looking
values here where we have kind of like a
term or a key and then a value right we
could start seeing more of our apis
asking for more and more of these key
value pairs so we can request more and
more specific stuff from the server so
we have our normal url
then we have our question mark and
everything that comes after the question
mark is a key value pair that are the
query parameters does anyone know how to
do multiple query parameters at the same
time like how do we separate multiple
query parameters at the same time
yeah we use an ampersand so we could do
s equals margarita and
drink type equals five or whatever it is
that we can read in the documentation
but we put the ampersand after nice
is it better to use async await uh we're
gonna get the async away we're gonna
build up to that yeah
all right so let's go ahead
and see if we can get some nasa photos
going and so what i want to do
is i've given you a template and so i'm
going to open up that template if you're
new here exclamation point discord agree
to the rules and then you'll see the
following materials channel everything
we need to build uh today so we're going
to use this api template i'm going to
open up the html i'm going to open up
the javascript
and in it is just a basic simple api and
i have this set up just to make sure
that it's working to make sure that our
template is good so i'm going to go
ahead and open this in the browser
and i'm going to go ahead and inspect
i'm going to go to the console
and let's see what we got to do here
uh when we click on the button
it grabs the value out of the input
plugs that value into the url and then
makes our fetch
so let's see if this works
let's just plug in let's say ditto
boom and we got our data back from the
pokemon
api and so i just like to have this as
my default template it kind of has all
the really big things that i might use
as i start kind of digging into other
apis we have the ability to have a click
event that calls our function
our function gets the value out of the
input in this case it was ditto
it plugs that value into the url and
then it makes the fetch with it so i'm
just going to use this as my template to
kind of go moving forward and it's
pretty cool like this pokemon api really
does work look at all this cool stuff
that you have that you can dig into
an abilities array a game index array
held items array
location area encounters there's so much
stuff in this api
um and kudos to ever built this out
because that had to probably take a lot
of time
i made this project last weekend dope
make sure you're doing all case
yeah
yeah make sure you're typing all
lowercase
if you type capital letter you're going
to get an error
so we get an error how do we fix it how
can we fix this
if we did we did capital d i know it's
hard to see
we did capital d
and it didn't work
yeah we could just go in here
and we could do
two lower case
beautiful now no matter what we enter in
it should work so if we do uppercase d
ditto
boom still works we still get everything
and it fixes that that error that we got
cool
uh why don't you need a template literal
syntax for choice uh their their url is
a little bit different they don't really
have like the query parameters if we
wanted we could do it with the query
parameters if we just want to be
consistent so we could change this to
ticks
right and instead of it being plush
choice we could do our bling
and
that should work all the same so now
we're using our template literal
we have our tick that opens our tick
that closes and we're plugging in choice
and so if we go
and refresh
and we do ditto
boom still works all the same
how can we make submit on enter you have
to change the event to submit
but when you do that
you also have to prevent the default
behavior which is the form submitting so
i think it's just easier when you're
testing to just have it on click and
then eventually you can do on submit or
are on a specific key press if you want
you can do all that fun stuff
cool
all righty so we got our template set up
what i want to do is i want to use
nasa's apis so nasa gives us a lot of
really easy to use apis that can do
something really cool
i wore my
my libre planet space shirt today
specifically because i knew we were
dealing with nasa's data
uh and so the cool thing about nasa's
api is that there's so many different
apis you can use
but to use nasa's apis you have to get a
key
and the cool thing about nasa's api keys
is they don't really check anything they
just you just you can just keep creating
new ones and so sorry nasa i'm gonna do
bob
bobber
son
i'm gonna do bob boberson
at
boppity.com
and when you sign up
they just give you a key and so you
don't you don't actually have to
use an email address don't don't spam
nasa give them a real email address i
just have to be able to create quick
ones because we might have some
that are watching the stream today all
right so the cool thing about this is it
gives you the api key
already a part of the url so i'm just
going to go ahead and grab
right i'm going to go ahead and grab
that url
and i'm using something called postman
and i really like this because what
postman enables you to do
is just come in yeah i just hacked nasa
uh what it post enables you to do is it
enables you to like quickly test apis
uh and so a lot of times if i don't want
to have if i don't have a template open
or i don't have um
[Music]
i don't have like my setup going i can
just use postman i can plug in the url
and i can hit send and you can see i'm
getting some data back from nasa already
so you can see i'm getting the date back
which is today's date i'm getting this
explanation back i'm getting an image
url i'm getting an image type a media
type i'm getting all this stuff
right
and so it was pretty easy i just created
an account
and i was able to
get not only the direct link to the
picture of the day
api but i was also able to get my key
and so you'll notice that i have the
question mark
followed by api key equals and then the
key that nasa gave me
the reason why we have keys is that way
nasa can limit uh the amount of requests
that you are making
right and so if nasa was to see
me making millions of requests
right if nasa was to make me make see me
making millions of requests it could
stop me from making new requests and i
would have to create a new account
right
postman is completely free
i like to use it just to quickly test
apis so you're going to see me
you're going to see me testing with
postman a lot but then eventually i'm
just going to plug it into
my
my actual template here so i'm going to
go ahead and plug in the url
and that's it for right now
um i'm just going to see if i get any
data back using my template i know that
it's still going to grab choice and i
really i don't care because i'm not
using it but i just want to see if i can
get back anything from nasa while using
my template
all right let's refresh
let's click get pokemon and boom we're
still getting data from nasa
right we we are getting the date
we're getting the explanation we're
getting the url we're getting the media
type and so all this cool stuff that
we're getting back from nasa so what i
want to do is i want to look at nasa's
api real quick
and i want to look at the picture of the
day documentation and if we look it
actually shows you
all the query parameters that you can
use uh one that we need is the api key
but we can also do a lot of other stuff
it looks like we can request a specific
date we can probably get like a range
from a certain number of dates a certain
number with count
so the cool thing is like there's more
stuff that we can get from nasa uh based
on what they expose through their api
now nasa has so much data right but
they're only giving us a small sliver of
it through this api and there are some
parameters we have to give it to even
get that right and so
what i want to do is i want to be able
to build just a quick app where we take
this data from nasa and we just kind of
like enable users to enter in a date and
see the picture of the day
from that date
cool
so let's go ahead and take a look we
have it working we know we're getting
some data back
let's look at that data in the inspect
in in the console here we can see that
there is a explanation and an image url
so what i want is i want to be able to
show the image and the explanation
uh on my page so let's go ahead and i'm
going to go to my html here
i'm going to
[Music]
change this from which pokemon to
picture
of the day
and i'm just going to leave the input
fine alone
and i'm going to say get vote get
get media
and
we'll just leave the pokemon here for
now
and we will change the h3 to be where we
put the
uh where we put the explanation
i have no idea how to spell explanation
cool so we'll put the explanation there
nasa rules we'll put that in the h2
cool
all right so i have my lovely h1 with
picture of the day i have my input and
my button and i have a place where i'm
going to put the image and the
explanation
cool
all right
so we already have the data
we can see that the data has an
explanation and an hd url property so
let's try using those
let's go ahead and select in our
document dot query selector
let's grab the
um
let's grab the image
and what are we going to change about
the image
what are we going to change about the
image
yeah we're going to change the source of
the image and we're going to set it to
be equal to data
dot
i believe it's hd url is that what it is
yeah hd url is the property that we need
to set it to
and then
explanation
copy it
i'm going to come back here i'm just
going to change my html too while we're
here because i don't know if i spelled
it right
cool
and what i'm going to do is i'm going to
go into my i'm going to do another
document query selector as well
document.queryselector
and i'm going to select the h3
and i'm just going to put some text in
it so i'm going to use inner text
i'm going to set that equal to data dot
explanation
so if this is working
i if this is working
i should be able to get the image from
nasa and put it into my site and i
should be able to get the explanation
from nasa and put it into my site let's
go ahead and save let's go back
let's refresh
and let's click the get media button
so there's the photo
there's the explanation first try
hey let's go turn up we're getting data
from nasa
what
that's cool i don't care what
you say that's that's freaking cool
we're all up in nasa's mainframe
for strategy
that's really cool and so we're getting
this lovely photo
back
we got this lovely explanation
and i want to i want to take it to the
the next level though
i want to take it to the next level
um i want to be able to enter in any
date
any date and get the photo from that
so let's try that let's take a look
first let's take a look at our html
what should i change this input to if i
want a date
man we're helping netflix today we're
helping nasa today we're just helping
any company that starts with an n we got
you
we're gonna change it to date right
uh boop date let's save it let's go back
and take a look
cool now we get this lovely date picker
and let's console log it real quick
let's just see what date gives us back
um
so we have choice
i'm gonna take console i'm gonna take
two lowercase off of it because we might
not always need it
i'm just gonna console.log
choice real quick just to see what
happens
just to see what we're getting back
ideally we're grabbing the value from
that date input but let's let's see what
we get when we console.log it
all right
uh i actually didn't select anything let
me refresh
let me select today's date
click the button
great so we we do get a date
and it is in the format of year hyphen
month hyphen day
so let's go ahead and take a look at
nasa
and look at their documentation this is
probably one of the most important
things you have to do is when you are
using an api you are following their
rules they are going to show you exactly
how they want you to send the request so
that they can give you the data that you
want
and so if we look we can see oh there is
a query parameter for date
and it expects it to be in the year
month day so it looks good we can just
probably take that value
right out of the input
and set it as a key
on our
request
to nasa
on our request
shout out
magic school bus solar system
for getting me hyped on this when i was
like five uh because this is like
this is blowing my mind just a little
bit just a little bit
we're getting data from there is a
telescope that took this photo
nasa then archived the photo and now i'm
like nasa give me this photo and they're
sending it to me and i can keep i can
request all these different photos
i don't know that's pretty cool to me
all right let's take a look
um
it's just a query parameter so let's go
back to our url
and on this url we already have a query
parameter that is api key right we see
api key equals how do i add another
query parameter we said that there's
something we had to put in between
uh so that we could have multiple query
parameters yeah the ampersand so i'm
going to do ampersand
and then i'm going to plug in date
equals because that's the key it said
the key was date so i'm going to say
date equals and then i'm just going to
plug in
whatever we got from the
date input so that's choice
so if this works i will have used the
base url the picture of the day url i
will have plugged in my api key
and i will have plugged in the date
cool
let's save this
let's make sure today's date works we
already know that that
date was working for us before
so we're just gonna use today's date
boom
it works let's go
right we got the photo and the
explanation let's try a different date
let's try yesterday
let's go
this is so cool look at this
at the space station going past the sun
what
yeah it is the space station visible
only at night slowly drifting across the
night sky as it orbits earth
beautiful
let's pick a different date
pie fighter it does look like a tie
fighter right
let's pick a different date
let's go to a different year
july
15th
sometimes it takes a little while
you can see that we got it over here
and then boom look at this beautiful
photo
wow
a nebula
and a star cloud is it
a silhouette against a crowded star
field along a tail of a constellation
scorpius
wow that's pretty cool
all right so we're able to get all this
data back
um
and all we did to be able to pick a
certain date let's just kind of step
through where we're at
all right let's start through how we got
here
we have a lovely input that we changed
to a date input
and we have a button that we're clicking
we have a place where we're putting our
image and we have a place where we're
putting our explanation
cool
and then when we look in here we have
our event listener
that's listening for a click on that
button
when it hears of the click
it fires this get fetch function
and the very first thing this get fetch
function does is it grabs that date from
the date input and stores it in the
variable choice we're console logging it
just so we can see it and make sure that
we actually grab the date which we saw
we were grabbing the date
and
then i built out my url so the base url
was the picture of the day
how did i know
to include my api key query
and my date query how did i know to add
those two
those two um keys those two key value
pairs
i read the
nasa told me
nasa was like leon you gotta use the
date if you want the date and nasa was
like you got to use the api key if you
want some data from us it was in the
document right it was in the docs
so if we look in the documentation it
gives it to us here it says all right
here's the date
um
and this is what it should be formatted
as like it's giving us that information
and a lot of times the hard part of
using apis is like understanding what
the heck is going on in the
documentation
so
remember
how i told you
how
reading is really important
and we got to get better at reading
because sometime there's only going to
be some dusty documentation that's not
coming from nasa it's not some na this
is this is nasa engineer
documentation
right this is nasa engineer
documentation it's not always going to
be some nasa engineers right in the
documentation right and so
that's
why the reading becomes so important and
getting used to it and getting used to
reading technical stuff and as much as
folks hate eloquent javascript i think
it serves an important thing to get your
brain used to
reading dry dusty technical reading
because that's all it's going to be at
the end of the day there's be some
person that wrote some docs you have to
figure out and know how to use them
differently uncle js needs more love i
think so too i think it's very hard i
think it's one of the it's not like a
great first thing to go through but it
really does get you good at reading
technical stuff
also write your own docs exactly when
you build that when you start pushing
your stuff to github you better have
some good documentation on that github
cool
all right so we got our code
um
we have
it working
we were able to grab the date
we were able to plug that into our url
we were able to make the request and we
were able to put it into the dom
uh i have found something interesting
though
let me let me show you what i found
that was
interesting
let's go ahead
let's go back to our site
and let's plug in
february 3rd
of 2021 and let's get media
we got an error
ask me how i found this error last time
this error happened live last time we
ran this class so i was like oh let's
try it because this this class happened
on february
february 4th of last year
and i was like let's let's see what
yesterday looked like and it didn't work
why didn't it work
yeah it's a video
if we look
and we look at the media type
you see the media type is a video
and so there's some some some foolery
afoot because nasa might not always send
a photo
they might send a video
and so we have to be able to control for
this
it's aliens
yeah so now we've got to figure out how
to control for this what are some ways
that we could control for this like how
could how could we make this
work
it's not tom fuller it's nasa fooler
exactly different yeah we could use a
conditional
let's do a conditional and we could
check
uh the media type before we do what we
need to do
and so
if we want to play a video
we might also need something in our html
that can accept that video and so i'm
just going to put an iframe down here
and an iframe is just something that we
can embed a video into uh there are
video tags now that are built in that
are native to html5 we're just going to
use an iframe because it's easier for
right now because they're going to give
us i think like a youtube video
and it's going to be easier just to
embed that into the iframe
cool
all right so we know that's where our
videos are going to go let's save this
nothing will be in there to default if
we get a video we can show it in there
so before we just run in and append an
image to the dom we can probably put a
conditional in here let's go do a
conditional and what we want to check is
the media type and let's let's see um
let's see what it was so it's media
underscore type
and it could be a video and it could
also be a what was the other thing it
could be let's take a look
let's just use today's date because we
know that it was um actually
photo
all right so it can either be a video or
an image so it's image not like photo or
something like that
so it's image i thought it might be like
img or something but it is the full word
image cool
let's go in here let's do media
underscore type
uh if it equals
image
why won't this work why won't media type
equal image work
nightbot's popping off
yeah
it's because it's tied to the data
object wait a minute why is nightbot
stopping everyone
oh i think maybe it's um
yeah when you paste code snippets you're
sometimes pasting links so be careful
because nightbot's gonna time you out
interesting
yeah it's just code yeah so it's looking
for it's looking for the data right
media type is not a thing it's only a
thing because it's part of the data
object right it's the object that we got
back from nasa so this object we get
back from nasa and we said nasa uh this
object we get back from nasa
is a media type property but it's on the
object that came back
and right now
right now we can see that that object
has the name of data so we're going to
do data
dot media type beautiful
all right so data dot me typing goes
image if it is an image then we can just
go ahead and do this
boom
and then we can do elsif
you can do elsif um data dot
media type
equals
it was video right it was just video
there's just video right
cool yeah video
and then we can just do this in here
we'll just kind of copy this
link
boom
and we'll say um iframe
and i i think source is still the same
property on iframe yeah so the iframes
have a source property as well
and it'll just be the hd url was it
called hd url when it was the video
let's see
um
oh no it's just called a url
so it's not hd url it's just url
so we've got to go back and change that
one to just be url so if it's a video
it's not data hd url it's just url
cool
uh we'll still leave our explanation
outside the conditional
let's save this
and let's plug in today's date
boom we got the photo showing up
and then let's go ahead and try
the date that we know that was the video
which is
february 3rd
2021 the day should live in infamy
boom
and down here we got our photo our
our
our lovely iframe with the video so it
worked i'm i'm blocking it
but the video's there
you can play it
it'll play
found on the moon it's behind me um but
the image didn't go away why didn't the
image go away
why didn't the image go away
also we should probably move the iframe
above the explanation i think that makes
more sense
because it's two different things we
didn't change the source on the image
right so the image stays there so one
thing we could do
is we could change we could set like the
source
and
the
the i like the source on the image and
the source of the iframe to like know
right or display block
and then display it when we see it but
that's a little extra for right now
let's just save this
let's refresh
let's pick the date we know that
doesn't work
not the second the third
beautiful we got the the video coming in
and we got the explanation so it's
working cool
i'll leave the hiding and showing
right
uh i'll leave the hiding and showing to
you if you want to get rid of this image
trays touchdown a thank you for the five
get this subs hope you're doing well
thank you for being here
is the tchip hundred devs merch mine no
that's fake there are there are people
that are like scamming like 100 devs
merch which i find hilarious
but yeah there's no there's no red
bubble there's no teespring the only
time we do merch is live here on stream
yeah we're going to be doing more our
place merch because i know a lot of
folks want that so we're gonna do like
more stickers and more shirts and stuff
like that
cool
all right so it's working we're getting
images we're getting videos now from
nasa
and i think a way you could take this a
little bit further would be to like
clear out the images and iframes on each
load just so it looks a bit better you
could also make this look way better
you can make this look way better like
right now it's kind of just like plopped
onto the page like we're throwing it
right into the dom
and so that's something you might want
to think through is like all right how
can i make this look good make this your
own
if you look
um if you look on
nasa's api website they got so many
other apis as well
right
so many other apis they got an asteroid
near earth object web service
they got so many cool stuff that you can
just play around with
and get different photos and different
data back and so if you're looking for
some places to to have to to get some
urls for your or some apis for your
assignments right to build the three
this might be the one to look at
well done everybody
alrighty
let's do all right we got a little bit
of time so let's jump into our next one
all right
so like i said always make these your
own
we we did it together
if you need to i'm gonna zip this and
you'll you'll have access to it uh after
stream
come with this break it play with it
make it do something a little bit
different and then that way you can add
it to your portfolio eventually so
there's gonna be a hundred nasa api uh
photo ones but there's probably some way
for you to tweak this to make it your
own
alrighty let's talk about something
called local storage
so local storage is something that's
pretty interesting
it is an api
right uh it is an api that gives us a
simple interface to do something very
complex
and so the thing that it does that
enables us to do something that's very
complex is it gives us just like a
simple method that we can use
that enables us to store stuff
on our users computers across browser
sessions
and so with local storage
we can store data across browser
sessions so what the heck does this mean
that means that we could build an app
and that user could come to our app
do something and then a week later come
back to our app and still be able to
pick up where they left off we could be
able to store data
on their machine that we can use later
and we don't have access to databases or
anything like that yet so local storage
is a great way to have some persistence
some things that stick around
even
even if they leave the browser and come
back
and so this can be really cool because
once we know about local storage
we can start to build apps that are a
little bit more real right the big thing
right now with all of our javascript
apps is that there's one like fatal flaw
what's the fatal flaw of our of our
javascript apps
yep we refresh and poof everything goes
away we're not at the back end yet we're
not ready to start using databases yet
but we can have kind of our own local
storage where we put information that we
can use later on
and so with local storage there's some
really cool things that you can do but i
want to show it to you real quick i want
to show you how it works
so i'm going to go to wordle
and so wordle is a game that
the new york times bought recently
and it's a it's a it's a mild addiction
that i have i play wordle every day
um
i have a pretty big streak going i'm
pretty good i can normally get most of
them in three
and three sometimes i gotta do four
right
and so i see a lot of people saying ado
or audio nah that's not a good first
word
the the your brain
fills in vowels
way easier than it fills in
consonants
and so you got you got to go consonants
first right
and so i'm going to spoil this one i've
already done this one and i play on my
phone not on my on my browser so i'm
going to show you uh so first word crane
all right
we got the r we got the a not in the
right spot
we can then do split good follow-up
we got the l but nothing else and this
one was royal
i think i got this on four today not
three though and so it was royal
cool
now i leave wordle
let me let me close out wordle
and let me come back
let me do that
wordle
let me come back to wordle and look my
statistics are still there
my my my games are still there i refresh
it's still there but i didn't create an
account
right i didn't create an account
i'm not signed in
how is
the new york times
figuring out
what my statistics are
whether i played or not and they're
actually using something called local
storage so
if you play in your browser be very very
careful what we're about to do because
it will clear your streak and there's no
way to get it back
donchi pazzo hey thank you for the raid
thanks for bringing the crew along hope
you're doing well
what are you all up to
what are you all doing today
welcome raiders uh we are in the middle
of playing with some apis both web apis
and now we're looking at uh local
storage
and we're looking at how wordle uses
local storage because what we just saw
is that when we refresh
our statistics still show up but we
don't have an account
uh we don't have anything where we're
like logged in or anything like that so
how do we actually how does this keep
like coming back up that's what we're
looking at for folks that are new uh we
are running a 30-week software
engineering bootcamp where you can go
from
no coding ability to employed and uh
this is tonight we're working on apis
and looking at some other fun stuff so
we just got data back from nasa
it sounds baller right so we built this
like quick app where
we can put in a date so if we put in
today's date
we can get the photo of the day back
from nasa we get an explanation of that
photo from nasa uh so it's pretty cool
all right let's look at wordle real
quick but disclaimer if you with
this stuff like your streak could
disappear all right so i'm gonna go to
inspect
and i'm going to go to application here
in the inspector
and if you notice
we now have in this application area
local storage and you're going to see
that there's local storage for new york
times website for wordle
and so if i click on this
i'm going to see a bunch of stuff
that
new york times is storing locally on my
machine
in regards to wordle
right and so the cool thing is i can
actually see all that data here i would
be able to see my streak i would be able
to see all that stuff that's being
stored on my machine
directly here is it an object yeah it's
exactly like an object it's kind of like
they have their own little object here
with a bunch of properties and values uh
that they can store stuff into
cool
now the interesting thing is if i go
back to the console i can do something
reckless don't do this if you care about
your wordle
so i can do local storage and i can say
clear
and clear is a method on that local
storage and when i run it
and i refresh my my wordle rip
we can see that it goes away our
statistics are gone
um
our statistics are gone
and um we're back to where we were
and so if we go back to the application
we look at the local storage
we can see that it's very different now
there's there's less
values here
right there's less values here there's
there's not the history that we had
before
and when we refresh
it we don't have our statistics anymore
and it looks like we haven't played uh
this game yet and so this is cool
because local storage enables us to
store things
directly and across sessions so the
beautiful thing is that we can
build an app
keep track of what's happening in the
app and as long as our users don't clear
their local storage we can keep track of
their wins their losses
lots of really cool fun stuff
all right
there's also session storage anybody
know the difference between local
storage and session storage
i can trick my friends into thinking i
get wordle first try every single time
exactly
yeah
session storage is just for that session
meaning once you close your browser it's
gone it's never it's not coming back
local storage persists across sessions
so meaning any of you like close your
browser and come back
um you you will be able to access the
same storage yep session is gone once
you close the browser exactly and so
that's the cool thing like if you if you
play like wordle like i do like on my
phone if i close my browser and come
back i still have everything
cool
so let's take a look at the like the
three big things we have to do
to make local storage work and then
we're going to come back and build an
app after our break with local storage
so let's go ahead and take a look at the
slides real quick
with local storage we have a couple
methods at our disposal we have the
ability to set an item into storage so
let's actually take a look at this we
can set an item
we can get an item out of storage and
then we can
um
remove an item from storage if we want
and we can clear all the things in local
storage and there are plenty other
things that we can do but those are kind
of like the big four so let's try these
in order together
open up my inspector
i'm gonna go to my console
and i'm gonna do local storage dot
set item
and i'm gonna say my key
is best friend
and the value is gonna be
bob right
and now if i go
and i go to my application
i look at my local storage you'll see
since i'm on slides.com
you'll see that
for slides.com
it thinks that i have uh well i do have
something there for local storage a kia
best friend and a value of bob
and so now the cool thing is we can see
that that key value pair is stored in
local storage on this application
and if i go back to my console
i can even do stuff like i can get it so
i can do local storage dot get item and
i can ask for uh best friend
and you can see i get bob back
right and so i can get bob back from it
i can even update it if i want wanted to
i could i could do the kind of same set
item again but do bob boberson
all right and now when i say get item i
get the bob boberson back and the cool
thing is i could refresh my page and
come back
and it's still there
all right it's still there i could close
my browser and come back it's still
there
it's still there until we
remove the item and so i can do local
storage
dot remove item
i can say
uh best friend
and now if i try to get my item you can
see that i have a null value i'm getting
back like that best friend is no longer
uh in local storage
that doesn't feel good so let's go ahead
and uh
set best friend back to bob boberson
now let's just double check that it's
there best friend i'm getting bob
boberson back looks good
uh and then the last thing i can do is
we just to confirm that it's in the
application here in the local storage
we can see that best friend is bob
boberson here in the local storage um
before we take our break let's go to go
to console
and let's clear it
so local storage
dot clear
and when we do it it clears out all of
our local storage
and when we go back to the application
boom you can see there are no key value
pairs
so the beautiful thing here is now
we have the ability
to store stuff over the long haul
meaning that we don't have to worry
about page refreshes we don't worry
about if our user closes their their
browser and comes back
if they come back to our application we
can store stuff that brings them back uh
to exactly where they were
cool it's for the site
uh when would you use this i just showed
you when you would use it wordle uses
this to store your statistics and your
streak without needing to store it like
on their own database it's all stored
locally on your machine
where is it actually stored that's a
really interesting question uh it
depends on your operating system your
browser and a bunch of other stuff but
basically you can think of
somewhere on your hard drive this or
your ssd or whatever is this local
storage uh some implementations i
believe are like a low budget like sql
implementation where it's kind of like
the the browser's running it and storing
into it um
but you can just imagine that the
browser has memory on your disk right
your chrome or firefox server has memory
on your computer and it takes up a
portion of that memory for local storage
would you use it for when a user is
filling out a long form i think that's a
really cool idea for local storage so
they accidentally hit refresh it's not
just all lost that could be a cool idea
cool
what if you closed the window you'd be
fine as long as you came back to this
site
it would come back and you'd be fine
that's the beauty of local storage
if you close your browser session you
can come back and it's still there
session storage however once you close
the browser it's gone
alrighty
let's go ahead
dev journey it does yeah
all right let's go ahead and take our
break
when we come back from our break we're
going to actually put this into practice
and build a really simple app that
enables us to keep track of history uh
using local storage and then we're going
to move on to building a game with apis
cool all right folks let me bring the
timer up
five minutes on the clock
donchipazo hey thank you for the raid
thank you for bringing your folks
through
you're new here we like to take breaks
at the top of the hour if you're able
get up move around hydrate let your eyes
relax on something that's not the screen
what if you close the tab and said the
browser same thing yep same thing
cool
all right folks good luck
i'm gonna run some ads you actually have
to take a break i'll see you in five
welcome gerald
uh
survive
all right folks welcome back welcome
back
alrighty
let's get back into this let's build
this uh let's build a little app with
some local storage shall we
come on back folks
all right
so
what i want to do is i want to put this
local storage into action
and what i want to build is just a
really simple app
the whole app what i wanted to be able
to do
is when we click a button
i want it to keep a score that goes up
by one
that's all
agent dazzo a thank you for the
hydration cheers to you
i want to click a button
when we click that button i want it just
to add one
all right
just add one and then i want it to be
able to be like local storage where we
can come back we can close the window we
can come back and it still works
what's today's tea today's tea is
um the organic chai from tazzo actually
like it's a good one
alrighty
uh
i saw somebody mentioning the the coding
boot camps that the universities put on
uh most of them are put on by a company
that just uses the name of the
university and then has a really shitty
boot camp uh you pay a lot of money
uh and they're not good like there are
so many other paid boot camps that are
like decent those are not one of them if
somebody said at least those you get
one-on-one mentorship you you don't you
get a slack channel that nobody responds
to your messages
uh i i think a lot of folks if you
really looked into like the support you
get in these boot camps you're way be
like you're better off like
finding a discord community that's not
even 100 devs like just finding a rando
like programmer's hangout or something
like that
compared to the support you'll get in
some of those those uh those boot camps
it's pretty wild
yeah it's it's pretty wild
and uh post program support uh they kind
of just dip on you first for a lot of
them
you know it's not really a thing
so be careful don't get got in these
streets
you got to do your research if you're
going to if you're here especially with
we had a couple raids today
100 devs might not be for you that's
okay you don't like my face beautiful
there are so many other communities
where you can learn how to code for free
and if you decide a paid boot camp is
for you know the main as someone that's
taught boot camps for 10 years
know that the main thing you're getting
is that you paid money to show up
and for a lot of folks that might be
worth the cost because they don't want
to lose out in the money they paid to
show up
but do not trust your boot camp
to help you get a job
it is on you to network to build your
network so that you can get a job in the
end because a lot of them won't help you
they they'll connect you with a few
folks and then disappear because they've
already packaged your debt and sold it
to somebody else so they don't actually
care
so
that's my word of advice be careful talk
to real alumni talk to folks that
actually graduated go on linkedin see
what their actual class numbers are
doing but just do your research be
careful
all right
let's build this app a local bot score
button
a local bot score button
so we have uh in the starter code i've
given you today
a lovely local storage bot score button
template i'm going to start with that
uh in it i don't have anything
and
in my html i don't really have anything
and so what i want in my html
is a button that i can click
and
just a place that i think i'll probably
eventually put the score
i'm going to get rid of this image we
don't need it
and i'm just going to put a button
and i'm going to say
another one
because i want it to be another one so a
another one and here's where we'll put
our score i'm just going to put score in
here for now
cool
and then what i'm going to do is i'm
just going to go to my api template
and i'm just going to copy the
javascript that i have here
i'm just gonna copy it no need to type
all that from scratch we have a lot of
the the key pieces here
that we can reuse and so i'm just gonna
take that from the api template and
we're good to start there all right
so
uh if the user can click a button
we know that we need a what
uh should we trust 100 devs no please
don't trust anyone that tries to tell
you about jobs on the internet do your
research even on me go to our
celebrations channel talk to our alumni
and i'll be the first person to tell you
getting a job is not easy it has nothing
to do with your coding ability and
everything to do with how much effort
you put into networking and and building
those relationships to help you get a
job so yeah don't don't even trust me
uh please seriously because i i don't
want you to get got
and i try my best to to bring folks to
talk to you
that didn't have the the the hunky dory
everything was roses experience
heck even people i direct you to
uh don't didn't get jobs right they
might have got a side thing or something
like that but i want you to see that
it's not a clear path and there's ups
and downs and it is a long trough of
sorrow i do believe you put in the work
you build your network you can overcome
some of the the barriers you have and
and and lean into some of your privilege
you can go ahead and get that job
um
but you got to realize that nothing's a
guaranteed thing and so even 100 devs
cool
so we know that if we want to click a
button we need a click event
right we need to click event and so here
we have our click event it looks like it
will work because we have a button we
have our fetch
what i want to be able to do
is when i click that button i don't need
any of this like api stuff for right now
so i'm just going to delete this
uh when i click this button i want to
like add another one i'm going to call
this add
another one there we go so when i click
this button i want to add another one
and so what i need to do
is i need to
add one
to a value that is in local storage
how do i at least how do i set up a
value in local storage
what do i need what do i need to set up
to to actually have a value in local
storage thank you add another one
what do i need
yeah i need to set item
so i can go ahead and set item
um to
zero so let's go ahead and say local
storage dot set
item
and we're gonna say
we're gonna call it count
and we're gonna say set it equal to one
beautiful
would be the problem
of having this set item
inside of our function
what would be the problem of keeping
this here
yeah every single time this function
call got called we would reset local
storage count back to one and so let's
pull this out of here let's just do it
on page load so since it's gonna do it
on page load i was going to put it up
here and
actually says
to a bot score so we're going to change
this from count to bot score
and i think on page load i actually
don't want it to be at one let's make it
zero so when the page loads we set the
bot score
to zero
cool so now now we at least have
a score
that is in local storage
now when we click the button i want to
add one
to it
how can i add one
to this value
what could i do
yeah
i need to do exactly get items so i can
get the value then add one to it and
then reset the item to that new value so
let's go ahead and say uh bot score
equals local storage dot get item
and what item do i want i want the bot
score
so what this should do
is if there is a bot score in local
storage is going to give me that value
and store it in bot score
and we're going to call this bot score
val
like the value of bot score
so what i'm going to do is i'm going to
do bot score val
plus equals one
and now that i've added one to bot score
what i want to do is i want to set the
bot score to that new value so local
storage uh
local storage dot set item
i'm gonna set the bot score
and what am i gonna set bot score to
what am i gonna set bot score two
yeah the bot score val
all right
let's see it so
on page load
we set bot score to zero
now we have our event listener where
each time we click the button it runs
add another one
the first thing we do
is
get the value out of local storage and
store it in this variable
then we add one to the variable
right
and then once we've added one we reset
that score to be the new value which is
whatever it was
plus one so let's save it and see what
we got so far
let's go ahead and open this in the
browser
all right let's open up the inspector
[Music]
and i'm going to open up the
local storage
application
and we actually have some old stuff in
here so let me go ahead and just do a
clear real quick
cool so that's cleared
uh and then let's just uh let's go ahead
and look at the local storage let's
refresh it
all right so we can see it when i
refresh
we can see that that bot score is set
equal to zero
is there anyone planning on starting
this course from the start still yeah we
have plenty of folks join every day
join the discord join the catch-up crew
all right so on page load we set the bot
score to zero
cool now let's try clicking the button
another one wait a minute
another one uh wait a minute
another one
get it
you get it now
another one
[Laughter]
you got got
you came to get you got got
another one
another one all right what's happening
here
what's happening here
another one
ready ready you wait for it another one
cool
so
it is
concatenating exactly
what do we know about what does that
maybe tell us because we put a number in
here
we added a number to it what does that
tell us about the stuff that's coming
out
of local storage
yeah it's stringy right it's probably a
string so let's wrap this in number
just to make sure that we are always
dealing
um make sure that we're always dealing
with numbers here
so let's save that let's go back let's
refresh
and that's also something interesting
that we just saw there let's go ahead
and click add another one
another one
another one boom there we go now we're
actually going up
however
there's something weird that's happening
did you all spot the weirdness
i really do come up with a joke and then
build a whole lecture around it that's
what happens just so you know my process
this another one was literally what i
thought of and then i built the whole
lecture around it
same thing with dailon
you all thought this was a coding
bootcamp this is just my really weird
form
of like stand up
i built that dialon example that was the
first thing in my mind and i built the
whole lecture around it
so you know
i supposed to hot fire
uh there's something weird happening
here ready look hold on refresh with me
pay attention refresh
boom back to zero wait a minute leon
you you told me
you told me
that the whole point of local storage
is that you can refresh the page and
come back
that when you're using local storage you
can close the browser window and come
back and it's supposed to be the same
why is it
resetting on page refresh
let's go and take a look let's see if we
can figure out why that is
why why is this always going back to
zero on page refresh
because we told it to exactly exactly
princess a computer does what we tell it
to do and on line three we said hey on
page load set bot score to zero so every
single time we refresh
this gets set back to zero
it doesn't matter what happens inside of
our function or our event listener
because this was telling it to set to
zero on page refresh so
we need a conditional
we need to check and see
if bot score is there
if bot score is there we don't want to
do anything
but if it's not there we want we want to
do this code so let's go ahead and just
make a conditional
if
and we can say like local storage
get item
um
bot score
we actually saw what happens
what happens if i try to get an item
that is not in local storage
what do i get back
leon's entire motivation for teaching us
just so that we can get his weird jokes
exactly
yeah we get back null and null is what
type of value
null is what type of value
yeah it's falsy exactly it's falsy and
so since it's falsely we know that if we
ask for get item back and there's
nothing there we'll it'll be false
right
and so what we want to say is
all right
uh if it's not false
right so if if if if we don't get a
false value back like if it's not null
or not false right if it's not falsy
uh if it's true right if there's
something in there we'll get a true
value right we're saying not false
then we can just go ahead and do this
line
so now we're saying not false
is there another way we could do it
though
now we're saying not false is there
another way we could do it
yeah let's try it let's see what happens
i'm a bad yeah i write bad code
all right let's refresh uh let's go and
do another one another one keep going up
going up going up going up going up
going up let's refresh
aha look at us go look at this go i'm
clicking that refresh like a look at me
go yeah
i'm clicking on the wrong spot
there we go on the refresh
click and refresh like it like it's wild
and look bot score staying the same i
can come back boom 12. let me let me
close it we're in wordle let's open this
back up again
mm-hmm
open in browse let's go to that
application let's look at that local
storage
uh-huh
oh
look at that bot score there right back
to where we were another one look at us
go
first
another one
cool all right so that's the beauty of
local storage
and the cool thing is local storage is a
simple interface that does something
really complex
we only have to learn about get set
and clear and then we have this whole
place where we can store stuff
right that we can come back to our apps
can be persistent they can have uh value
so that as users come back they can have
incremental stuff
beautiful
i love it
do you ever run out of local storage i
guess theoretically you could because
you'll run out of computer storage i
actually don't know the limitations on
how much you can put into local storage
let's bring up the code real quick just
so we can see
we have our conditional checks to see if
there is a bot score if there's not a
bot score we set it to zero
basically we're saying if is there a bot
score if not let's set it
basically this only runs on the very
first page load that's it
five megabytes archer
that's not a lot
excuse me
five megabytes per
browser interesting i wonder if there's
a way to um
to boost it
cool
all righty so we have our lovely local
storage uh if people saying what are
cookies cookies are kind of similar
we'll get to them eventually uh we're
we're going to get them eventually but
they're kind of similar they're storing
a little bit of information on our
machines that folks can use and access
later on
local storage is cooler because it's
kind of like dealing with objects
right
it's kind of just like dealing with
objects and so if you can deal with
objects you're used to using apis you
can work with local storage and you've
got to know get item set item
remove item and clear and that's it you
can use it beautiful all right let's
actually
see if we can build a card game
and i think the push for the card game
is to get it working but then maybe to
store some information about that card
game in
your browser so that users can come back
and keep playing the same
game so i'm going to go ahead and
advance the slides a little bit we are
going to build a card game so let's go
ahead i'm just going to clean up a
little bit here i'm going to close these
out
let's go ahead and uh open up
the card well actually what i'm going to
do is i'm just going to make a copy
of my api templates that's what i'm
going to do i'm just going to copy my
api template and rename it card game so
um
api template
duplicate and i am going to call it card
game
all right so now i have just a copy of
my template
and inside of it
i am going to have my index.html
and
i'm going to have my main js
cool
all right so we have all of our nasa
stuff in here
we have all of our nasa stuff in here uh
nothing too too wild
and so what i want to do is i want to
build a card game called
war
and so the way that war is played
is that
you are
playing against someone else
and you both draw
cards
right we both draw cards
and what we want to do is compare those
cards
the person with the higher card
wins
so if i drew a six and you drew a seven
you would win if i drew a
10 and you drew an eight i would win
if we drew the same number or card we
declare war
and we put up three cards and then flip
a fourth one the person that wins that
fourth flip takes all the cards and so
the cool thing that happens is each time
that you play whoever wins takes the the
two cards or in the case of war all
eight cards and so the cool thing is
that eventually
you win by having all of the cards and
so
i want to see if there's a way
uh to build a game like war using cards
but there's a lot of stuff that i don't
want to have to code
i don't have to code like cards
a deck
removing cards from a deck
all that stuff that would make like
coding this take a little bit more time
we could
but
what if there was a way for us to get
like a deck of cards
and um
yeah
just play the game using that deck of
cards that's what i'm gonna do
i am going to
use an api called the deck of cards api
it is literally deck of cards api dot
com
and the cool thing is if you go to deck
of cards api dot com i'm gonna put it in
chat
you can see that you can get a deck of
cards
um
you can draw cards from the deck and
actually look it already says two at a
time so we could build our our war game
right
by by using this
uh we can reshuffle the cards we can do
a bunch of stuff so let's just see if we
can actually get something from the deck
of cards api i'm just going to grab uh
this this link i'm going to go to
postman the test
like i said i love postman because i
don't have to actually
set up anything
i don't have to set up anything i don't
have to worry about like my template
being set up or anything it's going to
paste it in
click send
and boom i'm getting i'm getting some
responses back
and it gives me a deck id that i can use
and once i have a deck id
i can start to do some fun stuff with
that deck so let's go and take a look
back at the api
once i have a deck id
right once i have a deck id
i can use that id
to draw cards
right so my first request i got a deck
id
and then with that deck id
i can draw cards
let me try that let me see if i can draw
a card so i'm just going to i'm just
going to copy this api
url
i'm going to go to my postman
i'm going to paste it in
i'm going to grab the deck id from the
first request i got
let's plug it in
and let's see what we got
beautiful
all right so we can see on my very first
result
i got two cards back
i got a four of clubs
and a three of spades
so the four of clubs would have won if
we were playing war
and the really cool thing
is that you can see how many cards are
remaining so
a deck of cards is 52 cards
i drew two cards so i still have 50
cards left so if we were gonna build
this from scratch on our own
we would have to
code all of that logic right not only
we'd have to like code out all the cards
find all the photos for the cards um
find all the suits and things like that
we'd also have to code all the logic for
drawing cards we'd have to draw all the
logic for like keeping track of how many
cards are left in the deck but by using
an api like the deck of cards api i
don't have to worry about any of that
and what you're seeing me use right now
i said is postman postman.co and the
reason why i use postman is because very
quickly you could see that i was able to
jump in
right i was able to jump in i was able
to test some api routes i was able to
take like values from one route uh and
sorry one one url and like use it in a
different one and i wasn't actually
having to like write javascript
and so postman just makes it way easier
to test your apis uh to make sure
everything's working and to get a rough
idea of like if it's gonna work well
before you jump in and start writing the
code so i use postman pretty much all
the time like i always have it like open
and i test a lot of stuff in it right
now it's just kind of like apis but
eventually you're going to be testing a
whole segment of your app using postman
so
really a big fan
cool
all right so let's let's think through
this
um we're going to need
the ability to get a deck
and then once we have a deck
we need a
we need a way of like showing the cards
to the user and then showing like who
won
so let's let's try it let's go ahead i'm
gonna go into my html real quick and i'm
gonna get rid of this this stuff that's
in here right now
and i'm gonna put
i'm gonna put in h1 that just says like
war
um card game i'm gonna say card game
card game
and then i'm gonna have
an h2
or player two
and
i'm gonna have an image for player two
and then i'm gonna have i'm sorry player
player player two player one i'm gonna
have another h2
or
uh player
two
and then i'm gonna have another image
so these are just places where i'm gonna
put the the cards so i'm just gonna call
this image uh player one
and i'm gonna call this image the id of
player two
so the idea here is i'm just i'm just
creating a place to put the actual cards
so if i get the cards i have a place to
like show them that's all player one
player two
i'm just going to put in an r in here
i'm going to say card
and card i'm going to say playing card
actually it's a little more descriptive
playing card
and playing card cool
all right so
very simple we have just our
our player one or player two our cards
that's it
um
let's let's add a button that the user
can click
to like actually make the cards like the
card game play
i'm just gonna say
button
uh deal two cards so that way we can
actually deal out the two cards that
play the game we'll click on that to do
it all right so let's go back to our
main.js
and
the very first thing i need
is to get the deck id we saw in postman
that this only works
if i get a deck id
and then once i have that id i can use
it to draw cards
should we code along probably not i
think this is one where you kind of just
think through it and kind of talk me
through it and ask some questions as you
need it
cool
bells of alba hey thank you for the five
get the subs thank you for being here
cool thank you so much
yeah coding along is a lot there's a lot
on this one all right so i know that i
need to get a deck id
and then once i have the deck id i can
use that to get my two cards
so let's go ahead and set up getting the
deck id so i'm gonna go here
um
let's set up a fetch
i'm gonna take i'm gonna do a fetch
outside of
i'm going to do a fetch outside of my
click event
because i'm going to want that click
event to be the drawing of the cards i'm
going to say i'm going to say i'm going
to call this draw
and i'm going to change this to draw two
all right draw two draw two
uh and then i'm gonna have a fetch up
here
that just grabs the deck id for me
and in fact i'm just going to have a
variable called deck
id
and i'm just going to set it equal to
empty quotes for now and then i'm going
to do my fetch
and so let's go ahead and grab that url
uh the cool thing about postman is you
can just grab the url that you were
using in postman
oh actually cool look you can actually
pass how many decks you want so if you
wanted this to be like a hundred deck
game of war we could just change that
one number there which would be pretty
cool
all right so let's go ahead and grab
that let's plug this in as the url
and we should get a deck
let's clear all this crap out of here
and let's see if this works in giving us
a deck of cards so i saved it
if this works we should console log data
and we should see that we have a deck
100 decks exactly
uh
let's go to open this in the browser
let's go ahead and open up the inspector
let's go to console and we see that we
got an object so great
we have a deck
um and something interesting happens
if we refresh
each time we refresh what's happening
each time we refresh something's
happening
we're getting a new deck each time wait
a minute
what if
there was some way from homework for
homework
to make sure that you're always using
the same deck
hmm
what if there is a way to do that
what if we could like say i don't know
get a deck id
and then um maybe like store it and like
oh maybe there's like something like
local storage that we could store it
into
and then that way even if they came back
to this app later on they're not getting
a new deck
maybe that's for homework
all right so right now we're getting a
new deck each time and that's actually
probably pretty good um
uh that way i don't have to worry about
uh people grabbing my deck
right
so
we're gonna get a new deck each time
and then
once i get that
deck
uh let's go ahead what is it what is it
called it is a deck id
deck id
right deck id deck underscore id so
we can go ahead and do something like
this we can say deck
id equals data dot deck underscore
id
and
[Music]
let's see
ropheado hey thank you for the hydration
cheers to you
and the cool thing is that deck id is a
what
it's a what
it is an empty string now but it's a
global variable
uh and so like when you look up like bad
things to do in javascript global
variable is like literally the first
thing that says not to do but i'm a bad
yeah i write bad code so right now i
have a deck id that's a global variable
and i'm just going to put my deck id
into that global variable and the reason
i'm going to do that is because i know
down here in draw 2
i'm going to use that deck id so i want
on page load
to get a deck
and then down here i'm going to use that
deck id
right and so just to make sure i don't
have any like weird scoping issues i'm
just making it a global variable i'm a
bad airway bad code
cool
um are there plenty of ways to get
around the e-cut but this is
this is uh 25 minutes left in class leon
all right so we now have the ability to
get a deck we saw that it's working
we're storing that deck id in our
variable deck id
let's see if we can draw our two cards
so we have our draw two
and instead of doing any of this stuff
here i don't need any of this we need a
url so let's go and go back to postman
and grab our second url
so here's the second url that came from
the api
right from the api big tina energy
exactly
and here it is that's the url that we
were using that we got from the deck of
cards api itself right i just tested it
in postman so i know it works
and
i'm gonna come back to my code uh by
nasa and let's plug in
this deck
um but instead of it hard coding a deck
id here
since this is a template string i can
use my bling
and i can plug in what here what can i
plug in here
i can plug in deck id exactly so now the
cool thing that happens
is on page load
this fetch runs
it goes and gets me a deck of cards
we store the id for that deck
in a global variable
whenever we click
our button
it can use the id that we got on page
load to go ahead and draw two cards
let's see if we get any data back let's
let's eat all this stuff from nasa let's
see if we get any data back when we
click the button so let's come back here
um let's refresh
so we we got a deck of cards
and then if we deal the cards
you can see that we got two cards
so we
i was actually really excited uh you can
see that we have two cards we have an
array of cards
uh the first card is
an ace of diamonds and the second card
is a king of spades
so if we dig into this a little bit
deeper
we can see that each card has an image
and a suit and a value
let's see if we can get these cards
showing up in
in the dom
so we know that we get
an object back
that has a cards property but cards is
an array so we can use cards zero
and cards one to get the first and
second cards let's try that
document
dot query selector
and uh our our image had the id of
player one and we're going to change the
source to be equal to data dot
co was it cards or card
cards yep square bracket zero dot
what was it
image
cool because we got the data back
it had a cards property that was an
array we're gonna grab the first card
out of that array and grab the image
property
and then we're going to do the same
thing
the same thing
for the other card we'll do a yolo at
the end we'll do a yellow at the end
i think we're building up to some yolos
here
um so let's go ahead and this would be
one right so this is going to grab the
first card and the second card from the
draw
so let's go ahead and save this let's
see what we got
let's see what we got i'm gonna refresh
i got me a new deck of cards i deal two
cards
and the first card showed up that's cool
um
let's check
oh rip
i forgot to say player two good call
chat if we look remember our images have
the idea of player one
and player two
yeah i don't know about y'all y'all i
was pulling aces y'all were pulling
threes and stuff all right let's go
ahead and save
let's make sure this is working and then
we'll step through it
refresh so we got a new deck
and a deal two cards
you get a a deuce and a jack
a six and an eight
a king and an ace yo player one is
getting wrecked
destroyed
player two player one is not one yet
oh that would be war we'd have to we'd
have to like put up three cards and then
flip another one
cool
so right now
we can see that and it's also pretty
cool you can see how many cards are left
in the deck that looks pretty neat
um
right now we're not doing any comparison
to see who won
right we're not seeing who won yet so
let's see if we can build out the who
won let's just take a second to see
where we're at
we have a fetch on page load that grabs
the deck
and stores the id in our global variable
deck id
then down here
on the click of the button
we're using that deck id to draw cards
from our deck
right we're drawing cards from our deck
and all we're doing right now
is grabbing the images from the two
cards that are drawn and placing them
into the dom
let's go ahead and
see
if we can
do a little bit of
comparison here
let's go ahead
do we have a place where we can put this
let's see
uh let's put a place like
uh we can put
uh let's do like an h3 here
and i don't like the capitalization
put an h3 here and let's let's do it
like um
result we'll just say result for now and
this is where we're gonna put the result
of who won or not
cool
so let's see these cards do they have
value
they do we can see that there is um
let's open it up there is a value
oh however that's going to be a problem
anybody see the problem that i'm looking
at
anybody see that problem
they're not all numbers
the ace the king the queen are all going
to need numbers if we're going to make
this work
um so let's do the first thing let's
just let's see if we can figure out who
won the way it is now and then we'll
control for this edge case so
um
let's go ahead and say
we're gonna get the value from each card
so
let's get the values
i'm gonna say
um
let
player
one
value equal
and it's gonna be that data dot cards
zero
and then what was how do i get the value
off of it
value so it's just val dot value
beautiful and then we'll set up another
variable let player
2 val equal
data dot cards
dot value
cool
so now we have the value from both the
cards let's just do a quick conditional
let's do if
um if
player
1 val
is greater than player
2 val
okay greater
better to val then we'll just for now
actually let's put it into the dom
document.queryselector
[Music]
uh let's do h3 we're gonna say inner
text
equals
um player
one
wins
right
and then
we can do
[Music]
else if
and we can say player
one val is less than
player to
val
and we're gonna do the same thing we did
here um except player two wins
boom
and then the last one
is if they're not less than or greater
than then the only thing that else could
be uh would be to say um
war
we'll do that h3 and we'll put some text
in there
we'll say time for war
cool
beautiful
all right
you know what something is pretty
interesting
uh let's just see if it works and see if
it's doing anything i know hopefully we
get some like numbered cards
and it works so let's see
let's refresh we got a new deck deal two
cards
ace king
player two wins
that makes no sense that's not true
um
let's get two numbers let's see
there we go player one does win because
six
is uh six is uh less than ten
oh no that's not working
this should player one should be winning
uh
no that's what well nope player one
should have won this interesting let's
check
let's see what's happening because
player one should have definitely won
that one let's look at the cards
[Music]
what are all the values chat can you see
what the values are
they're strings if only we saw something
earlier today that would help us fix
this
if only
what could we use to fix this
yeah number nice
all right let's look at number
and wrap these in number
all right let's see if we got it working
now let's refresh we got a new deck
draw two cards we're gonna draw until we
don't have face cards
all right
so player two should win this one right
because five is greater than four so
player two should win and that's what it
says
player one should win
all right cool so it works when they're
numbered cars
what number of cars when they're
numbered cards uh this works
right so the cool thing is
maybe we can convert all the cards
to a numerical value
so i think i can do that pretty easily
and i'm going to see what the kings look
like is it all caps or not
um
yeah it's all capital letters
so what we can do is we can just create
a little helper function
and our little helper function
um can just convert it to a number
so let's call it
function uh convert
to num
and we're going to take in a value
and it's just going to be a conditional
we could even probably do a switch here
but just taking a conditional we're
going to say if
val equals
ace
then we'll return
so let's say 10
jacks or 11
queens are
12. kings are 13 and aces are 14. so
we'll just return 14.
uh elsif
elsif
else if
cool and so we'll just kind of keep it
going we'll say if
val equals king
all caps right remember it came in all
caps
um if val equals
queen
cool
and if val
equals
jack
cool and then we're gonna have an else
here as well which will just be
return
val cool so if it's already a number if
it's not an ace a king a queen or a jack
we should just return that number uh so
we'll return here
over turn
will return 11.
and so if it's not a
ace king queen or jack
whatever value we passed in
we'll just return the value
cool
are there jokers that's a good question
difficult i don't think so because it
was a 52 card deck so i don't think they
would put jokers in a 52-card deck
but that might be something we'd have to
control for that could be a little bug
that pops up if we're we don't know
all right let's take a look so now we
have this little helper function that'll
convert any value we pass into a number
or at least give us
the number and so instead of
doing this comparison here
i am going to
[Music]
i'm going to do this
i am going to wrap this in convert
to
value
so we called our function
what do we call it
convert to num sorry
convert
to
numb
cool
and so what this will do is i'm going to
call this uh that i spell it wrong too
i forgot the t
all right so what i'm gonna do is
instead
of
just immediately like comparing the
values
every value i get from the card is gonna
be passed into this convert to num
function so
if i got an ace back here
this ace will get passed in
vowel will equal ace and will turn 14 so
it's as though this value here would
become 14.
one thing i'm noticing is that we should
probably have
number on this
that we're always returning a number
because those values could be the string
of the number
cool
i'm going to wrap this one and convert
to num as well
let's see if it works and then i'll walk
through how it works i know this is a
lot
cool
all right let's save this
let's go ahead and run it
deal two cars we got a new deck deal two
cards
queen and six player one wins let's go
jack and ten player one wins let's go
seven and four player one wins let's go
player two wins with the ace all right
let's go
first try
wheezy said everyone take a moment to
appreciate that we can somewhat
understand the wall of code versus four
months ago hell yeah if you pay
attention to any of this imagine where
you imagine trying to pay attention to
this a couple weeks ago
all right let's take a look let's make
sure we understand understand what's
happening here
jason the rule hey thank you for the
five get the subs again i appreciate you
thank you for being here
and thank you everyone for uh all the
subs today it was a lot today i
appreciate you all spending jeff bezos's
bucks and using the primes and all that
fun stuff uh thank you
all right let's take a look
we have
our very first fetch that happens
on page load
uh we get the deck id which we store in
a global variable we're gonna need this
deck id
right
i think so too legendary learning is fun
we're gonna need this deck id
so that we can make another request to
draw two cards from the deck that we got
all right let's see
uh we click the button
and that's gonna enable us to draw two
cards we're gonna use this this url to
draw two cards we're plugging in our
deck id
and then what we're gonna do is we're
gonna get the response back from drawing
two cards from our deck as long as we
don't refresh the page we're gonna keep
drawing from the same deck
we put the first image that comes back
with the two cards into the dom we put
the second image of the card that comes
back into the dom
and then we create this little helper
function that takes the values because
the values were strings and our little
helper function
converts ace kings queens and jacks to a
number value and converts any of the
string numbers to an actual number
right and then the only thing we have
left to do
is compare those numbers to see if the
player one one or player two one or if
they're ready for war
pretty neat
all right let's do uh pokemon cards and
then we're gonna do a yolo pokemon cards
and then a yolo
um
so let's go ahead and take a look
and then we'll talk about the homework
all right so
we have
quite a few pokemon cards to get in
today
and we're gonna do a yolo so
um here are
the pokemon cards that are still
available
and
let's see
let's go ahead and i'm going to
set up a quick
math.seal
we'll do a math
dot random
and we're going to times that by the
number of cards we have left
which are 64.
so we'll do 64 times 64.
if it winds up being one two or three
you get the top tier card one two or
three you get the top tier card we have
quite a few folks that did the pokemon
card
redemption and so we're gonna stan start
with andrey sloth andrew sloth this card
is for you
let me go ahead and i'm just gonna i'm
just gonna copy these names real quick
so i'm gonna need them so i can send out
the cards uh i'm gonna be sending out
all the cards uh along with all the
other merch stuff we're doing i'm hoping
to take some of the time this weekend
that we have for me to be able to go
ahead and do all that
so andrew sloth this is your this is for
you
three two one
eighteen
let's see what the heck 18 is
18 is the double colorless energy uh but
it's the league promo version that's
actually a pretty cool card um so i'm
just going to go ahead and copy that
real quick
boom
and we're going to put that on my list
here just so i know who got it
and then i actually have to delete this
because there's no doubles there so i'm
going to delete this row
all right next one up is
yobe oh yobe uh this one's coming up for
you yobe let's go ahead and draw it
again
three two one
sixty-two all right let's see what's at
sixty-two
sixty-two is sage's training oh no sorry
oh mancico this was the death of one of
my i actually don't pronounce this this
is the death of one of my decks i got
rolled by this so hard when i was
playing competitive um i'm gonna delete
this
let's go into yobe
and we're gonna do a yolo
all right
el vellano el veleno this one's for you
el villano this one's for you
we need to build an api for this exactly
actually somebody did that last class
somebody last class built me an api to
do this i just don't remember the url
someone really did do that last class
they built an api for me that looked at
it and um i just i forget the url seven
eleven oh seven
let's see
seven is oh kingdra prime
that's a fire card all right kingdra
prime coming your way
got just a few more here folks then
we're gonna do a yolo then we'll do a
nice raid get some more channel points
so you can get cool stuff like these
pokemon cards all right we got we got
four more to do here
one more
all right 64. and this was for
fire repeat fire repeat
uh there is no 64 anymore so you know
what
we'll make that uh we'll make that a
re-roll since there's no more 64. i
forgot to delete it too you lucked out
because you're at the bottom
fire repeat since there's no 64. we'll
redo it because that would have been a
bad card uh so let's go ahead and change
it well not bad card just a lower end
card all right let's reroll 62 25.
i repeat that is
the jirachi unleashed beautiful coming
your way
and i'm going to go ahead and delete
this because i only have one of those
cool which means this has to change
and this is for
ervacid of asset
this is for you
so that is a lovely
persian coming your way
and we'll go ahead and delete this one
cool
two more here folks and then we're going
to do a yolo you don't want to miss the
yolo so you get these sweet sweet
channel points then i'll talk about the
homework and then we'll wrap up with a
raid all right woven this one's for you
woven this one's for you
we're at 60 now
51.
that's a professor juniper
i got three of those that's good
professor juniper coming your way woven
and for folks that get the pokemon cards
i'm gonna reach out to you by whisper
here on twitch
i'm gonna ask for your address and we're
gonna get that coming your way i know
some folks watching pokemon cards
earlier like a month or so ago those are
gonna go out with this big shipment of
stuff going out and then the last one i
think is today
uh i think they just redeemed it it's
blind devotion this one's for you blind
devotion
and with the 39
we have a snivy
coming your way nice and delete this one
because i only have one of those
beautiful
alrighty
lovely let's do a yolo
[Laughter]
let's do it yolo
can i get rid of the kingdra
oh i didn't let's get rid of the kingdra
beautiful all right here we go we got
rid of all of them wonderful thank you
let's do a yolo so the way the yolo
works time to lose all my points again
hopefully not uh you saw the code folks
hopefully there's no bugs in the code
hopefully had enough time uh to take a
gander at the code to see if there were
any bugs uh we're gonna yolo if player 1
wins or player 2 wins
if player 1 wins
you win your points if player 2 wins you
win your points but folks
here is the game this evening
if we land on war
i'm gonna cancel
i'm gonna cancel it
everyone gets their points back and then
you have to yolo
double the points
so if we get war
you have to what if you put up 10 you
put up 20. if you put up a thousand you
put up 2 000. i'm gonna look through i'm
going to pull up this spreadsheet going
to be up in the spread she's gonna be
like
cool who didn't double bam bam bam
didn't double band double bam bam bam
bam bam bam bam double band cause you
don't have to play
you don't have to play you don't
but if you want to play today
here are the rules
you pick player one
or player two
we get war you have to double your bet
all right
let me go and set it up
let's go ahead and uh
we'll refresh the page we'll get a fresh
deck fresh set of cards player one or
player two send up the yolo
all right start a prediction
start a prediction
player one
or player two
mission period one minute
who will win
all right
that up prediction is started
got it
all right prediction is open who will
win player one player two
player one player two
player one or player two
i don't know why people are doing
exclamation point yolo
it's gonna be two million channel points
on each side
wow
one point two point one two mil
wow we're definitely we're four million
channel points on the line here folks
four million channel points that's
absolutely wild
wow
four million
we're at 5 million channel points
million channel points on the line folks
5 million can you believe it 5 million
channel points on the line
all right
let's see if we can do it all right you
ready for this
five mil channel points on the line
all right let's refresh
we got a new deck
we're gonna deal two cards
player one wins
oh no
you didn't see me do it
player one one you can see it in the
history
i didn't touch it player one one it
rigged
[Laughter]
ah player one one
i don't know who bet the points it
doesn't matter to me but player one one
there's no way to make this right can i
cancel it
player 1-1
player one one
let's see
how do i choose it
all right
i
feel as neat i feel i need to delete
this
bet and do it again
i do i don't think folks saw it i don't
want folks to be cheated
i think i have to i think i have to
delete it
yeah
i think i have to delete it
psych
[Laughter]
oh you don't trust me by now
if you don't trust me by now
player one one
i don't know how to do this fairly
i don't know if i should delete it and
redo it or if player one wins
i think we gotta i think the only fair
way to do this
is to delete it because folks didn't see
it
i know player one
you want your points i feel you
but i feel like we need to redo it
so i'm going to delete it i apologize
should have been little leon
i don't want i don't want to be any any
shenanigans
i don't have any shenanigans can i do a
poll
let's do a poll
new poll
should
i
redo
yes
no
all right let's start a poll
wrong one
should i redo
this is this is this for all of it
i wouldn't cheat y'all player one one so
let's see let's see what let's see what
the community decides
is democracy in in action
so the interesting thing here is that it
had to be more people right
all right
all right no redo
the ones won it by
over a hundred votes the nose wanted by
over a hundred votes
so player one really did win i would
feel really shitty if i had to uh
delete it from from the player one
winners uh so player one did win the
community's decided
i'm going to confirm it player one wins
boom
[Laughter]
i think that's fair i think they
deserved it they did win
uh now we can do one more
if you want to do one more this is this
is like really
this is this is getting me into some
troubled territory
give me some troubled territory
let's do another one let's do another
one
let's see the details on this one though
i see the details over here
over five million points
over five million channel points were up
for swings there
all right
let's go ahead i'm gonna set up another
one
it'll be a we're gonna do we're gonna
refresh new deck refresh new deck
all right start a prediction
we will win
player one player two one minute to get
in
and then we'll do a raid
all right one minute to get in here
i can't be doing too many more of these
yolos
can't be doing too many more of these
yolos i'm gonna refresh new deck
then pick two cards
all right we got a million plus on each
side whoa y'all
what a bunch of degenerates
i thought this one's gonna be like way
less
i thought it's gonna be like way less
this is what you're here for
screw learning the code we're here for
the yolos
[Laughter]
this is wild
wild
what i thought it'd be like half
yeah we're over five mil again this is
for another 5
million channel points what
what
another 5 million
channel points are up on the line folks
uh let's go ahead and refresh so it's
gonna be a new deck
and then we are going to draw two cards
all right
here's the refresh little leon you can
see me there you go i'm good live
all right refresh
new deck
draw two cards three two one
player two won it
player two on it
i hope he didn't switch it up
player two
what it let's go
all right let's confirm the prediction
here
choose outcome
player two
wins
complete
complete prediction
beautiful
all right
there's a few things for homework
uh due
thursday
due thursday
you have
an assignment that says to
create three small apps using three api
so
i gave you a list of public apis you
could use but any api is fair
game
meaning that you can just google for
certain apis you now have the ability to
use a bunch of them and so part of your
homework for thursday is to build some
simple apps using some simple apis
google share apis do you find that are
fun uh look up apis that might be tied
to your interest and try building also
for homework i want you to try playing
around with this game we've done a lot
here
break it apart try and make it do
something different try and get war to
work right right now war doesn't work
it's just the greater than or less than
right so there's lots of things you
could do here once you have the cards
working you could build whatever you
want you could maybe build poker you
could build blackjack and so there's a
real ability to take this deck of cards
api and build something really cool
as the beginning project for your
portfolio right i think there's a lot of
stuff here that if you just tweaked it
and made it your own
right tweak it and made it your own that
you could
wind up with some really dope portfolio
project so hope you had some fun today i
hope you enjoyed working through some of
these apis come back on thursday we're
going to do more stuff like this just
building seeing how things work testing
out new tools and then we'll go into the
the holiday weekend so let's go ahead
and do a lovely raid i really appreciate
everyone that sticks around for the
raids it's really nice to like spread
some love and positivity with the end
off the evening
also remember you you get those sweet
sweet sweet
channel points and so let's go ahead and
do a raid
uh since we since we started off with
the uh let's see
um we've been to in a while
cool
all right let's go to polaron we haven't
been over there in a little while
let's send them some love's positive if
you haven't give them a follow please
give them a follow
and i will see you all again on thursday
setting up the raid
boom we're heading over
have a good night everybody hope you had
some fun hope you learned some stuff
build break
make it your own
and i'll see you all on thursday
peace everyone let's raid
youtube